https://prezi.com/p/tzjnfs5uivtf/?present=1

Hi everyone. My name is Connor Bottum and I wanted to give a rundown of what, in my opinion, are the best languages you can choose as a complete coding beginner.

First, I want to introduce myself. Like I said, my name is Connor Bottum and I currently work as a QA Engineer at Defiant. Before my current position, I worked as a coding tutor for TheCoderSchool. You can find me on Twitter at c4llmeco4ch or you can ping me on Discord with the username shown here

So, I said this was a discussion on picking your FIRST language. This assumes you have little to no experience with programming. If we're being completely honest, your first language DOES NOT MATTER. If you are confused and still feel unsure after watching this video, flip a coin or pick the language that has the coolest logo. The main takeaway from your first langauge is to learn the basics. Once you are confident in your programming fundamentals, you can pick a language that more closely suites your needs. For now though, just go with your gut knowing there is no "wrong" answer.

Now, why might you choose one language over another? Some examples might include, what you want to build? Do you prefer industry-standards, or do you prefer aligning with the dark horse in case it blows up? Do you want a language that has a smaller learning curve but possibly fewer features, or do you want a language that might be more complex up front but gives you everything coding has to offer in the long run? Finally, you might know a few friends who code in a certain langauge or be in a discord server with some programmers, so picking the language they use might make things easier as you have a community you can fall back on when you get stuck.

Beyond those, I've included a few reasons why you might have decided to get into programming in the first place. Starting off, you may not really know what to build, but have simply been told "you should really learn to code". If this is you, my recommendations are either Python, Java, or Golang. You'll see Python multiple times in this presentation, which is fitting considering Python is the definitive jack-of-all-trades language. It is very easy to get started with, but does lack some top level features that may or may not be useful long-term. Java is a bit older and more complex, but does have just about everything available to a coder including some things Python lacks. Finally, Go (or "Golang") is a personal favorite of mine built by Google. It is a language built around keeping your code easy-to-read and is a major up-and-comer, but does presently lack some advanced features that may be introduced in the comings months.

But maybe you are a student and will be taking a coding class next year, be it a high school AP course or a college course or major. For the high schoolers, AP Principles is typically taught in Javascript or Python, while AP Comp Sci A is taught in Java. If you are about to take a course from a college department, consult your professor or the course catalog, but you will typically see courses taught in either Python, Java, or C++. 

What if you do know what you want to build, but aren't sure what languages and technologies are used? Some of the common interests are building websites, video games, and mobile applications. For websites, you need to learn HTML and CSS. Don't worry, these are very simple and can be learned in a few hours or days if you are studious. Beyond that, you will probably want to learn either Javascript or Python. If you want to build video games, the two main languages to consider are C# using Unity and C++ using Unreal Engine. Mobile apps are a bit trickier, as you may be locked into a particular platform depending on the language you choose. If you just want to make Android apps, pick up Java. For apple devices, Swift is the way to go. If you want to make apps for both at the same time, you'll want to learn Javascript then later combine that Javascript knowledge with a tool called React Native.

Last, maybe you are switching careers or planning your college major and want to enter a specific field or sector. For Data Science, Math, and Statistics, you will probably want to pick up Python. R is definitely an option as possibly the best language for those fields, but I would only recommend R to someone who knows 100% they want to choose this route. R is not really used in other fields, so you might be boxing yourself in if you choose this language. If you're interested in AI or Machine Learning, you probably want to choose Python and later aim to incorporate the Tensorflow framework. Finally, if you are interested in Cybersecurity or Penetration Testing, be warned this is a more advanced field. You will typically need to have a solid grasp of not only Python, but also Bash scripting and C/C++.

Now that we've gotten our recommendations out of the way for languages you SHOULD learn, what are some languages that might not make sense for your first language and maybe should wait until you are a bit more experienced? C (not to be confused with C++) is in a lot of ways the grandfather of coding languages. It is a very old language with some outdated practices, but is still used today when programming low-level systems. Objective-C is what Apple originally created for iOS development. This has been all but phased out in favor of Swift, so pick that up instead. Finally, PHP is a very common language for web programming, but it is highly inconsistent and can easily lead to writing insecure code.

So those are my thoughts on where you might look to start your programming journey. If you have any questions or feedback, please feel free to leave a comment below and I'll be happy to help! Also, like subscribe for more coding content, and I look forward to seeing you in the next video. Peace!
